# Instacart-Market-Basket-Analysis--Big-Data
Master's Course Work at The University of Texas at Dallas

Instacart Market Basket Analysis is a part of the Kaggle community aiming to use Instacart’s data of customer orders over time and predict which previously purchased products will be in a user’s next order. Market Basket Analysis is a modelling technique which measures purchasing pattern for customers and is based on the fact that a consumer is more likely to buy a product which was present in his previous orders. In Instacart’s competition, we are to forecast the products whether a user will buy again if he has already bought a certain product. It is a very interesting technique which has multiple uses in every domain. For example, to recommend goods for online e-commerce websites using data driven approach for easy and helpful shopping experience. In our project, we have identified this as a regression and classification problem and predicted products for given test dataset orders by not only using existing features but also deriving more features after understanding and thoroughly analysing the dataset.

The aim for this project is to be able to predict with accuracy the product-id of items for all the order-ids present in the test dataset and help provide an easy and decisive method for the task. We have implemented techniques like RandomForest, GradientBoostedTrees and DecisionTree regression to base our conclusion. Our project is part of an active competition by Kaggle. There are previous works done by skilled Data Scientists in this field, our work here will add to the pool of learners that have been already identified for the task.

We wrote classifiers in Python using PySpark and Ml-lib libraries on Databricks cluster.
